# Moov Organisation Mission Statement

At this moment one of the biggest problems plaguing our society is wealth and income inequality.
* The top 20 percent of US households own more than 84 percent of the wealth while the bottom 40 percent combine for a paltry 0.3 percent.<sup>[1][1]</sup>
* About 47 percent of all new income ends up with the top 10 percent while only 13 percent reaches the bottom 50 percent.<sup>[2][2]</sup>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Despite the fact that worker wages (adjusted for inflation) has not risen in 50 years<sup>[3][3]</sup>, at least 47 percent of current workers are in jeopardy of losing their jobs to AI within the next 20 years<sup>[4][4]</sup>. We are already witnessing the introduction of AI in the areas of transportation, medical diagnosis & prescription, shipping, surveillance, farming, cooking, senior care, cashiering, legal consultation and many more. Based on current economic trends these AI services will be owned by a few people and at the same time replace millions of human workers. This will only further the wealth and income inequality as the owners of these AI services collect even larger stakes of the produced wealth while the replaced workers receive little or none.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Some people may claim that wealth inequality is inherent in capitalism and the only solution is to raise taxes on the rich and then implement socialistic policies for the poor. However that does not fix our economic system instead it is a meek attempt to allay its incompetencies by inadvertently giving more power to the government. So we must trace our steps back and rethink our economic system. What is the purpose of an economy? Is an economy that doesn't work for the middle class a functional economy? How has capitalism worked for the middle class over the last century? What is inhibiting it from working for the middle class today?  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Today, there isn't much we can do about human workers getting replaced by robots because they are cheaper, safer and faster. But according to Adam Smith, in a functional capitalistic economy when cost of production is reduced by the invention of new machines, tight competition among innumerable producers must directly result in reduced cost for consumers. Unless the process of capitalism is hindered by an ___oligopoly___ of a few producers, then the reduced competition will not permit the cost of goods and services to reduce to the lowest cost possible. So it is the money that people should be saving which winds up bloating the wallets of the wealthy. There are two main reasons for the persistence of oligopolies today:
- __High barriers to entry.__ For instance, in the case of self driving cars, high cost of research and development([80 billion dollars so far][5]) ensure that only a very few wealthy people and corporations are able to invest in it. Once they invent the self driving car technology, they will own the intellectual property rights to this technology and most likely abuse it to keep out newcomers. This will grant them the unrestricted authority to charge customers high profit margins to use their exclusive technology. The self driving car industry is expected to replace millions of jobs and reach an annual revenue of 800 billion dollars within the next fifteen years and 7 trillion dollars a year in the fifteen after that<sup>[6][6]</sup>. There is a high chance most of that money will end up in the pockets of the people who are already very rich today.
- __Winner take all aspect of internet marketplaces.__ For instance, in the case of ride hailing services, since the probability of finding the best rider-driver match is directly dependent on the number of people using a ride hailing service, it is prone to creating one or two monolithic services. This is the reason Uber and Lyft own about 99.99% of the market share today and since there isn’t much competition both companies are at liberty to charge high rates of commission([25-40%][7]).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our mission is to dissolve these oligopolies by negating the two trends stated above, what if self driving car technology was free and open to all people? What if nobody owned the ride hailing marketplace and therefore customers did not have to pay anyone commission to use it? What if we could translate this model to the other AI services mentioned above?  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The only inelastic cost in the deliverance of AI services is energy. So if AI technology was open, the barriers to entry for AI service providers would be lower which will increase competition and that will ensure that costs to consumers rapidly converge towards the cost of energy. Not to mention, over the coming decades as we enter the age of solar, the cost of energy may also drop significantly which will make it possible for the cost of AI services to reduce even lower, maybe even negligible.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Perhaps then we can prevent most of the created wealth from hemorrhaging in the vaults of a few people, perhaps that may reduce the income gap and perhaps that may allow power and money to be shared much more proportionately among the people. Perhaps then we can reignite the American dream and grant it to a lot more people in America and around the world. In the age of the blockchain and AI, this is indeed possible and at the Moov organization we are dedicated to accelerate the fulfillment of this goal. We want to harness the power of Artificial Intelligence to empower the people by drastically reducing their cost of living. Thus we may all be able to live in a world where a lot more of our kids have the opportunity to pursue the life of their dreams.

###### This project is dedicated to two of the most unsung heroes:
1. Mothers, who have worked tirelessly to nurture life on this planet.
2. Open source developers, who have worked tirelessly to make technology free and accessible to all people.

To find out how we plan to decentralize ride sharing market place and make self driving car technology free and open [click here](master_plan.md).

[1]: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/economic-inequality-it-s-far-worse-than-you-think/
[2]: https://www2.deloitte.com/insights/us/en/economy/issues-by-the-numbers/july-2017/rising-income-inequality-gap-united-states.html
[3]: http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2014/10/09/for-most-workers-real-wages-have-barely-budged-for-decades/
[4]: http://harvardpolitics.com/world/automation/
[5]: https://www.brookings.edu/research/gauging-investment-in-self-driving-cars/
[6]:  https://newsroom.intel.com/news-releases/intel-predicts-autonomous-driving-will-spur-new-passenger-economy-worth-7-trillion/
[7]: https://www.ridester.com/uber-fees/
